Most Asian stocks advanced on Wednesday, tracking overnight gains in Wall Street and as strength in technology shares offered support. Japanese markets lagged as a Bank of Japan survey showed improving confidence among major local manufacturers– a trend that could give the central bank more impetus to hike interest rates. Regional trading volumes were dulled by holidays in China and Hong Kong for the National Day. Mainland China markets will remain shut until the middle of next week. Focus was also on a Reserve Bank of India interest rate decision, with the central bank widely expected to loosen policy further while leaving its benchmark rate unchanged. Asian markets took some positive cues from a stronger overnight close on Wall Street. But this momentum was seen running dry in the face of an imminent U.S. government shutdown, after bipartisan efforts to approve more funding largely failed. S&P 500 Futures fell 0.4% in Asian trade, with the U.S. government now set to shut down from 0400 GMT. Tech-heavy Asian bourses were the best performers on Wednesday, with South Korea’s KOSPI up 0.8%. Tech stocks tracked overnight gains in their U.S. peers, which were encouraged by lingering optimism over the artificial intelligence trade. An element of bargain buying also aided the sector, after it clocked steep losses through most of September. But overall gains in tech were limited by growing uncertainty over the path of U.S. interest rates, after Dallas Federal Reserve President Lorie Logan flagged caution over more interest rate cuts. Japan’s Nikkei 225 and TOPIX indexes were the worst performers in Asia, falling 1.1% and 1.8%, respectively. Local stocks were quashed chiefly by increasing concerns over an interest rate hike by the BOJ, after a survey showed increasing confidence among the country’s biggest manufacturers. The BOJ’s “tankan” survey suggested that Japan’s export-heavy economy was not as badly affected by U.S. trade tariffs as markets had feared, giving the central bank more headroom to hike interest rates.
